The next topic we're going to discuss
is inference with conditional types.
So conditional types aren't
just about checking to see
whether a given thing is
a subtype of another thing.
We can use the infer keyword
to extract something out of
a type within a condition,
which we then can use separately.
And when I talk about extracting something
out of a type, I don't necessarily
mean the kind of thing that we
looked at with extract and exclude.
But sometimes this is extracting a type
per out of something, essentially.
We're gonna look at a motivating use case.
In this 08-infer folder, within our course
notes, you can see that we have two files.
One of them we're calling fruit market.
You can see we've got apple varieties,
orange varieties.
We've got a list of possible allergies.
We've got some type that
represents degree of ripeness.
We have a type representing
a quality range.
So there's there's a lot going on
in here we've got fruit order item,
we've got fruit order,
fruit order preferences.
And then finally there's something
at the bottom that we export so
outside the model,
sorry outside this module,
this is the only thing that we'd
be able to see, it's create order.
And it takes as an argument,
this fruit order preferences thing.
Now, we don't need to understand
this in detail except in so
far as like, you see that there
are a lot of types referenced here that
are that you only have access to
by these names within the module.
So let's go to our index.ts file, so
here's our create order function takes
fruit order preferences but there's no
way for us to get that type right now.
It's the first argument of that function.
So what we're gonna do is
use a conditional type
to sort of tease out, that first argument.
And what we hope to do
here is get prefs like,
if we've defined get first arg correctly.
This instead of being of type any,
it should turn into type fruit
order preferences, right.
Get first arg is going to do that for us.
It's gonna take the type of the function,
create order, and it's going to give
us the type of its first argument.
So let's get started, first we
need to introduce something called
the infer keyword and
I want to look at a simple example here.
Before we get into function signatures and
things that are practical,
but make things a little bit more
complicated in TypeScript promises,
have a type param promises are generic
over the type of value they resolve to.
So if you have a promise,
wow, copilot you're awesome.
Promise that resolve 1 2 3, so this is
a promise that resolves to a number.
How might we take the type of a promise,
like this?
Promise string, how might we take that and
end up with this becoming a string?
Well, we have the answer in front of
us and we're going to walk through it.
So, here's the answer.
We're going to do it step by step,
on different lines.
First, we can identify that this
is a conditional type, right?
All of this stuff is a type expression,
and
sorry the whole thing including P.
This represents the condition and
we have our extends keyword here.
So we're saying P extends
a promise like what's
gonna happen with this
[LAUGH] Infer thing, come on.
P extends promise like, and
we have this infer keyword and
what this is going to do is,
well first of all the type,
the condition expression here it's going
to evaluate as it always would, right.
Like in terms of whether
we're sent down this branch,
in the case that the condition is
satisfied, or this other branch,
in the case that it's not satisfied.
This infer keyword will have
absolutely no effect on that, but
what it lets us do within the condition
is tease out a new type parameter T.
Note that there's no T up here when
we're defining unwrap promise.
We can use this T in
this branch specifically
where we have found that
the condition is met.
So, what we're doing is we're
saying we take in a promise,
that's our P and if P extends
promise-like over some generic type T.
We're gonna grab that T, and
we're going to return it or
we're going to evaluate up to it.
And here you can see we get a string.
Here you can see we get an array
containing a string array and
a number array.
Here we can see we get a number so
that's how infer works.
infer can only be used in this branch, it
cannot be used in this one right that this
is the branch down here that represents
the condition not having been met.
And of course you could assume there that
like, well, it's not a promise and so
of course we can't extract out
the type that the promise resolves to.
We've failed to meet the condition so
that's why only in this
branch you could use T.
It's almost like a type parameter
that's sort of declared on the fly and
can be used in this part
of the conditional type.
It's a really powerful idea.
So let's go back to our
fruit market example.
First, we're going to need a type for
a one function argument.
And because of the way arguments work in
JavaScript, there's a little fishiness
around being able to check for exactly one
argument versus at least one argument.
But we'll do our best here.
So we're saying, all right,
I have a type and
I think I don't need this any
here in fact, I know I don't.
I have a type 1 arg function
that is generic over A.
Its first argument is A and
its remaining args can be anything,
and there can be any number of them.
And it returns a void,
which means I don't care what it
returns it could return whatever.
And I'm going to ignore it,
you might say, like,
wait a minute couldn't we
have done this or this?
Something that's not null, not undefined.
I'm putting a type pram here for a reason.
It lets me use infer, so
here's get first arg and
I think I have that defined above so
I'll comment that out.
This is why I have the any,
it is just a default for the type param,
like in the event T is not provided,
you can assume it's an any.
So we're saying get first arg,
if T extends one arg function,
then we'll accept it as a type param.
Now, in terms of what that evaluates to,
we have a conditional type as long
as T extends one arc function,
we'll emit a string array,
otherwise we'll emit a never.
I'm just doing this so that we can see
if we can identify a one arg function,
like if we see string ray we'll
know that our condition works.
I do this all the time to
test conditional types.
You're just sort of testing it to make
sure the condition flips the way you want
and this is to make up for the fact that
like, this is not imperative code where we
can put a debugger somewhere and
we can see what's happening.
We kind of have to set up a test case and
see what the expression evaluates out to.
So here's our function, it has at least
one argument and t1 is a string array.
So we know that this type checks,
we know that at least
the positive test case works, so
let's let's modify this a little bit.
What we want here is to say
T extends a OneArgFn, and
OneArgFn is generic over
its first argument.
Just use R there.
Why is it yelling at me?
I have not used R yet, so instead of
returning a string array, let's return R.
Sorry I put that in the wrong place.
That instructor.
Up here, there we go.
Infer R, so we're saying OneArgFn.
So do you match OneArgFn?
And if you do, let's tease out the thing
that a particular OneArgFn has for
its type param.
Look what we get, string.
String is in fact the type of
the first argument here so
let's go back up to the top here and
See how this works.
So prefs, what's the type of prefs?
Look at that, fruit order preferences,
so we've managed to obtain this type.
Fruit order preferences, despite it
not being exported from the module but
we had like access to a type that included
fruit order preferences, and using
infer we were able to pluck that out as
the type of the first argument and use it.
And now if we wanted to we could sort
of stage, to stage some preferences and
then send them into
the create order function.
The remaining type type error we're
getting here it just proves that we
are type checking against fruit order
preferences, like we don't have apples,
oranges prefers local produce like
that's we're working with the tape.
Now that was the goal.
>> So, and you can tell me if we're gonna
do this later, but I see it says never.
But if I change like foo to not have any
params it comes back as unknown not never.
>> Comes back as unknown, I bet that's
the one arc function type here.
Yep, it's going to be, and let's prove
it to ourselves like more directly here.
Let me explain this a different way.
It's hard to actually type check to find
a function that has a specific arg while
being flexible to a bunch
of different args.
And you can trace this back to kind
of how you can do function.call and
function.apply and all that with,
remember we used, well.
I remember a time when we used
to use the arguments list,
like literally the arguments keyword
that is available in a function scope.
Type checking here is not as good
as I would hope it would be, but
this is kind of how it works.
We actually never, as long as you
pass in a function of some sort.
Like if we if we make this a number,
this well first of all it's going to
fail this type prime constraint but
like let's let's get rid of that.
Just so we can see what happens
just purely based on the condition,
it'll flip to never here.
It's really that sort of the the number
of arguments of the function are sort of
slipping through
>> Got it,
okay
>> An unknown would be like
an acceptable thing to fall out because
at least you can't mess with it, right,
it's still a dead end
>> Thank you.
>> Its a good question.